hey everyone me again Laszlo Montgomery
come to you as usual from the china
history podcast.com if getting bogged
down in all the drama tragedy acts of
revenge and vengeance of 1966 to 1969
were finally into calmer but nonetheless
very treacherous waters in 1970 as we
begin part 7 of this overview of the
Cultural Revolution we see Mao kind of
coming to his senses he's admitting well
not openly admitting of course but in
his actions and the directions he gave
Joanne lie he's telling the premier to
go all-out on damage control and to try
and get the state apparatus patched up
Mao's now looking to start well patching
things up with his key comrades who had
gotten burned and inconvenienced from
miles Red Guards Mao said on his hands
and let most of them all get roughed up
and degraded yo Shao Qi died
Laurie Ching we remember tried to jump
off his roof and kill himself and a lot
of things like this happen so now Mao is
starting to reach out to those who
survived and carefully bring them back
into the fold and most important of all
Mao will reach out to the four marshals
Shu Xiang Chen yet yin yang yang Chun
and Chen Yi four guys he knew he could
trust and he's gonna ask them who was
China's real threat and they will
recommend to Ma that he reached out to
the United States because in their
opinion based on what they saw in 1969
1970 the USSR was China's biggest threat
and a new us-china relationship will be
a huge game-changer for China as far as
China's political relationship with the
Soviet Union not to mention the whole
world this whole idea that Mao had you
know to start talking to the Americans
and take the chance to begin having
relations and seeing where this all
might lead no one in China could
possibly
make that call except now after all that
had happened all the blood spilled in
China and all the suffering the huge hit
to the economy ranting about capitalism
and imperialism day in day out for years
and now to talk about cozying up to the
worst rogue of them all this is quite a
move now this whole notion of talking to
the United States added a whole new
dimension to the dynamic of the Cultural
Revolution Lin Bo and his closest allies
for one were dead set against it
although Lin outwardly went along with
Mao as long as there was always this
threat of war Lin Bale stature could be
assured the existential threat from the
US military was one of the main props
used to keep the PLA in this wartime
mentality by 1970 mile began to feel a
little threatened by this and it was Lin
Pio's first order which we discussed
last episode when he went ahead and
mobilized the whole PLA you know which
is no small thing to do a lot of stuff
has to happen and he went and did it and
Mao was more aware of the danger Lin and
his PLA allies posed than ever before
so cozying up to the u.s. brought Mao a
double benefit first it would cool
things down with them substantially in
China could stop worrying that the US
was gonna launch a nuclear strike or
something drastic and at the same time
it was a big card to play against the
Soviet Union and greatly diminished
Brezhnev's hand in a great game they had
going with China Lin P of course being
the creature he was picked up on all
this at once no doubt and if he didn't
surely his wife yet soon did so Lin
began to seem all playing these I don't
know what you call them games with Lin
trying to provoke him into some kind of
reaction always testing Li and baiting
him in August of 1970 at the second
plenum in Liu Shan factions within the
military and the CCR G the central
Cultural Revolution group all began
coalescing into sides
at Lucian the very place where the
meeting was held that swatted down Punga
why and elevated Lin Bo the whole matter
of Lin his hold on the PLA and the PLA
hold on overall political power turned
into high drama there were three main
sides or groups you had the PLA led by
Lin PL you had the CCR G still who ran
the all-important ideology of the times
and then there was Joanne lie the usual
voice of reason and practicality needed
to run the levers of state but all was
not well at the pinnacles of power
though outwardly BFFs
mouths wife Chang Ching and Lin's wife
yet chin were political rivals both
suspicious of the other and when Chen
bought a sore the future and decided it
was better to join the Lin Bo team
rather than stay with the gem Ching team
that's when things began to fracture you
had five people who essentially ran the
CCR G Chen board ah Jiang Qing Zhong
Xiang Shao yawen UN in wong hong hwon
with Chen borders defection so to speak
that only left four and these became
known as the gang of four later on so
Chen borders shifting of his loyalty to
Lin's faction caused a bit of a rumble
so August 1970 rolls around and
everybody is settled in at scenic Liu
Shan in qianxi province just north of
Lake pooyan where in 1363 the largest
naval battle to date had been fought
which brought Joo Eun Jung to power as
the first ming dynasty emperor this
second plenum all started off innocently
enough the topic was who should replace
Leo Xiao Qi the state president office
was still unfilled at the ninth Party
Congress Lin Biao had officially been
made mouths number two but if so why
hidden mao yet elevated lin to take over
the spot vacated by the late Leo Xiao Qi
why was it left open instead was Mao up
to something of course he was
Lin Biao made his opening chess move and
suggested Chairman Mao also
largely ceremonial role of state
president as well as you know of course
party chairman lynn said mouth should
hold both positions now this was a
reasonable suggestion chen bought joanne
la in Kunshan
they agreed but Mao said no he said the
post wasn't important and mostly
ceremonial but if the post were made
important it should go to Lin Bo
that's what Miles said now what did this
mean after so many years all these
leaders assembled at Lucian knew how Mao
worked here he was once again giving
these non-committal cryptic answers that
didn't say yes and didn't say no and
everyone had to think hard how to
respond knowing that the wrong answer
could cost them everything that they had
managed to gain up till now so Lin made
his opening move saying mouth should
take the post Mao says it should be Lin
but with the huge caveat regarding the
role of the state president position so
what to do well Lin punted for now this
would have to wait the next topic seemed
innocuous enough this concerned a
discussion between the military in the
CCR G over whether or not Mao had
developed Marxism Leninism with genius
creatively and comprehensively and if so
it should be inserted into the
Constitution Lin had raised this back
when the Constitution was being
rewritten at the recent ninth Party
Congress Mao had vetoed it back then now
Lin was raising it again Zhang Xuan Shou
opposed what Lynn said now Jiang Cheng
Chao had come to symbolize the worst
excesses of the Cultural Revolution so
one of Lin's proxies the Air Force
commander wolfish n argued that Jang
twin Chow and therefore the whole CCR G
was saying Mao was not a genius as far
as his contribution to Marxism Leninism
goes Chen ba da here took the side of
Lin Bo and the PLA against his CCR G
allies it got ugly really fast the CCR G
were declared to be running dogs of the
imperialists
called revisionists and
counter-revolutionaries as well the PLA
and the CCR G were now openly attacking
each other John Chang went straight to
Mao and you know complained of course
and Mao had been watching events unfold
saying nothing watching waiting and then
once things began to flame up he made
his move
Mao called the Politburo together and
there Chen ba da was denounced by the
Chairman in the strongest possible ways
Mao called him a false Marxist a
longtime KMT agent and for good measure
he called Chen a longtime ally of Wong
main Wang Ming you may recall from an
earlier episode was the leader of the
so-called
28 Bolsheviks and mouths most formidable
rival for control of the CCP
in the 1930s so being called Pro Wang
Ming was the same as being called anti
Mao Zedong with this sudden shift in
which way the wind was blowing no one
came to Chen hua das defense seeing
Mao's reaction it was best to let Chung
twist in the wind and be resigned to his
fate and with that Lin decided let's
just drop the whole idea of whether or
not Maya was a genius with regard to
Marxism Leninism Mao turned on the PLA
and demanded they all make a
self-criticism with regard to this whole
thing now everyone in Lin bells camp was
scrambling having obviously pissed off
mile but not quite knowing how and Chen
bodasse illustrious career came to an
end any attack on Lin Bo was an attack
on the military's influence on power in
China this is what ma was trying to tamp
down at the second plenum of the 9th
Central Committee Lin knew for certain
that he had lost favor with the great
helmsman the rest of 1970 was filled
with behind-the-scenes drama and
scrambling to remain on top old friends
became new blood enemies outwardly it
was you know the same MO same oh but now
everything was out in the open Mao was
already starting to place some of his
own
military men in the PLA to check the
balance of power enjoyed by Lin Mao was
going around saying things like you know
a certain person aims to become head of
state split the party and grab power and
also things like it is difficult for
someone who has taken the lead in
committing major errors to reform Mao
would drop hints like this all over the
place anyone with two brain cells knew
Lin Bo had clearly lost favor with the
Chairman and he was on his way out maybe
it was real maybe it was just that Mao
was nearing the end of his life and in
his infirmity he was irrationally
wrestling with the notion of a chairman
Lin after he was gone at this point
after the Liu Shan plenum it was over
between these two and they both know it
this leads us to the year 1971 we all
know what's gonna happen
Lin pyaar was gonna make his move before
Chairman Mao makes his move the way Mao
had been carrying on for most of 1971
Lin knew he was toast
so did Lin's son Lindley Gua a
high-ranking Air Force officer under the
wing of loyal Lin Qiao supporter wolfach
Yin together along with Lin's scheming
and ambitious wife yet soon they plan to
launch a coup d'etat the centerpiece of
which was the assassination of Chairman
Mao this is the so-called limpio
incident of september 12 to 13 1971 this
is the infamous project 571 will GE alas
I'm not going to get into the details of
the Lin Biao incident but suffice to say
all kinds of documents have been
released and it's 41 years since Lynne's
plane went down in Mongolia I would say
a remote part of Mongolia pretty much
every place is remote there although a
lot is known about the events leading up
to and immediately after Lin's plane
went down the truth is we don't know
everything but with this sudden dramatic
event happening like it did in September
the Cultural Revolution really hit an
iceberg the Lin Pol incident by the way
will be covered later on as a separate
podcast for now we'll just you know go
with the briefest of details the fall of
Libya was not good for the PLA as far as
their control over the CCP went over the
last couple of years they had grown in
power and their numbers comprised a big
slice of the Central Committee pie the
whole limpio incident made them look bad
and Mao milk this for all it was worth
to beat down the PLA and diminish all
the power and dominance they had built
up under the leadership of Lin and his
faction now I was able to breathe a
little easier now and he felt there
wouldn't be any PLA cooze on the horizon
but this was quite a shock not only was
a political shock it was also a big
shock to the whole Cultural Revolution
Lin's most key generals were all gotten
rid of
they were the chickens used to scare the
monkeys so to speak it didn't take long
to get everyone else in the line to
denounce Lin Pio and go along with you
know whatever the party center said it
was a time for the disgraced old guard
PLA generals to all have a silent moment
of reflection soon their country would
call on them again to save the day Lin
had been their old comrade-in-arms going
back to the 30s and 40s but Lin had
turned on them for the sake of his own
ambitions
now Lin Biao was gone and these
survivors each took their turns to put
their swords in Lin Bao's legacy Flynn's
death came at an inconvenient time
Kissinger had come to China to work on
the us-china opening just before and
just after Lin's plane crashed mid
September was too close for comfort to
the annual National Day celebration when
the top leaders would mount the viewing
podium overlooking Tienanmen square two
weeks wasn't enough time to sort this
whole debacle out the inner circle of
the party center had to figure out
how to spin something like this of such
great magnitude this whole thing had to
be carefully thought out as far as how
to break it to the good old lop eye
Shing Mao broke the news first to the
old guard of party those who had endured
the common humiliations in the early
phases of the Cultural Revolution they
were told first so they had to do the
unthinkable and cancel the National Day
celebration
this was the deadest of Giveaways that
something wasn't right
and besides over two weeks not a peep
from Lin Bo or any of his people and of
course you know rumors got out and
spread the official version from the
party center came out in October and
over the period of the next few months
words slowly leaked out Lin pyaar went
from being miles closest comrade in arms
and chosen successor to being called a
swindler of the Leo Shao Qi kind for the
chairman this was devastating in these
last five years of my life saw once
great man in a steady and permanent
decline Mao Zedong now 78 years old as
1971 came to a close still had plenty of
fight left in him but with this second
terrible defeat in ten years and time
running out for him he was faced with
some difficult choices he would only
live for five more years as with the
Cultural Revolution all of these men
these close comrades of Mao they were
all getting up there in years
January 26th 1972 one of China's most
beloved leaders marshal Chen Yi passed
away for those months following Lin
Belle's betrayal and the massive damage
it caused mild personally the Chairman
could hardly rouse himself from bed
after the way his Cultural Revolution
turned out he was no doubt brooding and
his solitude that they were gonna pin
this one on him too just like the Great
Leap Forward it
was time for damage control so that
morning when the leaders were all
preparing to bid farewell to their dear
comrade Chen Yi Mao spontaneously told
his minders he wanted to go to the
funeral Mao hadn't gone anyone's funeral
during the entire Cultural Revolution so
when he suddenly announced early in the
morning that he was going to attend
Chinese funeral ceremony Joe and I had
to spring into action to adjust the
choreography a little you know there
were two kinds of events those that Mao
went to and those that he didn't bother
to show up
Mao not only went but participated in
the funeral arrangements as well those
who were present that day would later
recount the dramatic moment when Mao
entered the memorial hall where the
ceremony was looking old frail and
pathetic with tears in his eyes
obviously not well clad in his pajamas
slippers wearing an overcoat
I remember it was January and Beijing
was freezing cold that day and he had a
hat on he looked terrible and he greeted
Chinese Widow and choked on his words
praising Chen Yi for everything that he
was no doubt Chinese Widow wondered
where were Mao's tears when she and her
dear departed husband were being savaged
by Red Guards mial claimed ignorance of
their plight but no one would dare lay a
pinky on someone like China without
mouths okay
so here was Mao a Chinese funeral
showing maximum contrition looking
pathetic old and crying out as
lugubriously as the next one at the
funeral and the message was not lost on
anyone Mao was reaching out to those he
had forsaken and wasn't exactly begging
their forgiveness but was sending a
clear signal that he had erred and
needed them back this would be Chairman
Mao's last and final public appearance
from this point on he would not be seen
again by the Chinese people in so many
words Mao gave Joanne lighting okay to
start bringing
these disgraced comrades back this was a
task I'm sure premier Joe had no problem
or second thoughts about carrying out to
get the military back in shape
mild mostly relied on yet genuine well
the Cultural Revolution as I said still
haven't run out of gas yet though
severely degraded it wasn't over until
Mao said it was over or until Mao died
whatever came first one thing was for
sure if they wanted to quit and declare
victory they had the ultimate scapegoat
on their hands in Lin VL and soon after
Mao attacked the use of the word
February counter-current that period in
1967 when yet geunyang and the other
marshals all spoke up against the
Cultural Revolution so Mao brought these
guys back and reversed his decisions on
the February counter-current the whole
thing was blamed on Lin pl and remember
tangent Lin and Chen zai Dow Chen zai
Dao from the Wuhan incident they were
typical of the kinds of PLA top brass
who were brought back their crimes
committed during the Cultural Revolution
forgiven in fact Mao began the process
to rehabilitate all those senior
officials and military men who once in
place would engineer the return of dung
Xiao ping later on
well Nixon came and went in February of
72 a few months later in May of 1972
Joanne lie was diagnosed with bladder
cancer and suddenly the pressure on the
premier became much greater now that his
death could come at any time so many
wrongs from the Cultural Revolution
needed to be righted and only Joanne lie
was left standing to facilitate all this
the most capable and competent leaders
were either dead incapacitated or
incarcerated or in dung Xiao Qing's case
in complete disgrace and now practically
speaking Joe was the number two guy next
to Mao and with what happened to Leo
Xiao Qi and now Lin Byung the great
premier couldn't have been too terribly
comfortable about standing in those
dubious shoes
in any case Joe and lye at his age was
hardly a good candidate for successor to
Mao this matter a mouse successor had to
be resolved on top of everything else
that was going on with you know
reconstruction of the government the
military you know not to mention with
him society itself and there was still
the much degraded but still viable
Cultural Revolution to pay attention to
when people look back and talk about how
great Joe Enlai was all the amazing
feats he accomplished in his long career
going back to the 1920s the work he did
to try and put everything back together
in China after the fall of Lin Biao in
September 1971 was truly one of the
manifestations of his greatness the
Cultural Revolution had done its damage
all over the place
in what it did to people's personal
lives and how it led to so much
destruction of China's cultural heritage
its effect on almost everyone in the
entire country was so profound in 1972
when it came time to start sorting
everything out and putting it back
together the government was in such
shambles
so Joe had to bring everyone who was
necessary back from the brink and
restore things to the point where the
country once again had a functional
government Nixon may have come and gone
and all this international lights that
was being shown on the PRC and all the
buzz in the air about you know what if
and China's future amidst all this Joe
and I tried to do what was necessary to
undo the damage now one by one into 1972
the old guard started coming back not
dong Xiao ping though he was still down
in Shanxi province working as a factory
worker you know living a life of
humility but on February 20th 1973 Dunn
was called back to Beijing by April 12
1973 Dunn was hosting Prince Ian oak at
a banquet remembered dumb
he was the flipside of Leo xiaochi Dunn
was the second most evil face of the
great proletarian Cultural Revolution
but here he was back this almost had the
CCR G and all like-minded radicals
foaming at the mouth
compared to what was going down between
1966 and 69 the early 70s were a very
low-key time for the cultural revolution
once you had that 10-point o earthquake
of Lin bells one-way flight to Mongolia
it took a good two years to bounce back
from that the CCR G or what was left of
it was now in the hands of Jim King John
twin Chou and yawen un it was remoulded
into something now called the cpg
central propaganda group as they did
their usual mischief in the new post lin
biao post new shan era in 1972 1973 Joe
and I continued his work to keep them at
bay limit the damage they can do and
patch things up at home and abroad after
all the craziness that had gone on the
past five six years Joe had a lot of
explaining to do on the diplomatic front
on October 25th 1971 there was the
historic vote at the UN that gave
China's seat on the Security Council to
the PRC this along with Nixon's visit
put China into a whole different league
as far as international relations and
China's place in the world was concerned
Japan Britain and others one-by-one
turned their back on their longtime
allies in Taiwan and recognized the PRC
instead so you had this whole dramatic
backdrops what was still going down and
what I guess we could call the Cultural
Revolution part 2 the Sun began to come
out again in 1972 1973
people began to see the first traces of
relaxation and many of the strictest
taboos and society you know stuff you
could say or read you know that would've
gotten you in a whole lot of trouble in
1967 we're now okay and everyone was
doing it there was always a line the CCP
drew in the sand that demarcated how far
one could go
with your comments and if you cross that
line back in 1973
despite the air of anti radicalism
everywhere you could still get into some
major trouble who the young found out
the hard way he was a loyal CCP member
from Chengdu who disseminated a scathing
indictment on the Cultural Revolution to
the young really some things up well
when he said quote the great Cultural
Revolution has subjected more than 90%
of the cadres and more than 60% of the
masses to mindless attacks of every
possible kind political persecution
sometimes even physical ruin it has
seriously affected the eagerness with
which cadres and the masses build
socialism as well as the loyalty they
feel towards the party and he also said
the great Cultural Revolution has had an
extremely destructive impact on
industrial production with production
stagnating financial resources drying up
the state treasury being emptied and the
people's standard of living declining he
also said the great Cultural Revolution
has led to an unprecedented degeneration
in social morals and has guided young
people unto a road of criminality and
for that to the young was given a life
in prison this was just one example all
over China people began to speak up a
lot of people sacrificed their lives to
get what had to be said off their chest
the most damning denunciations of the
Cultural Revolution were given one more
eloquent than the one before some of the
perpetrators would be caught and
imprisoned or executed some would never
be found you know people all over the
world who always found ways with their
graffiti and secret handbills and
posters you know to always find a way to
say what was on everybody in society's
mind the matter of the legacy of the
Cultural Revolution whether mile made
mistakes or not and what was supposed to
be blamed on Lin Qiao these were matters
solely for the top leadership to pass
judgment on no matter what truth lay
behind these statements being made
if it didn't come out of the party
center he had to keep it to yourself and
so it dragged on at the topmost level
how to pin this whole thing on Lin pl
you know what were his exact crimes how
should he be labelled you know here's
were split on the language to use to
explain Lin's hairs Mao had to do
something else real fast he needed to
find another successor he began to groom
one whole one remember him he was the
original Shanghai hothead leftist who
had breathed so much life into the
Shanghai Red Guard movement he was
credited with being the first to paste
up a dots of ball condemning the local
Shanghai Party leadership his leftist
credentials had always been top notch
Mao saw something in Wang home one that
made him call the Shanghai leader to
Beijing in September 1972 Mao met with
Wang and was clearly grooming him Wang
wasn't even 40 years old yet he had come
from nothing was socially what you could
refer to as you know a worker but here
he was sitting with Chairman Mao you
might ask why would Mao choose this guy
you know so obviously not qualified Mao
was taking a risk still clinging to his
leftist beliefs mouth felt his legacy
was probably in better hands with
someone like Wang hong-won and charged
and with you know someone else you know
someone Joanne Lai might might want Mao
was weary of premier Joe he was worried
about what might happen if he were to
die before Joe there had to be someone
he could use whose loyalty he could
count on but who at the same time could
take some of the wind out of Joanne lies
sales therefore after three and a half
years in political oblivion Mao calls
Tung Xiao ping back to the capital and
as I said at March 9th he's fully
restored but at the tenth Party Congress
hastily called to undo you know some of
the more politically embarrassing parts
of the ninth Party Congress dung didn't
get into the Politburo that would come
later
eat boo-boo in no shape or form was the
great success of the Cultural Revolution
deconstructed other than slamming Lin PL
the party wasn't quite ready yet to pass
judgment on the Cultural Revolution
which technically was still going on to
show that the Cultural Revolution and
leftist ideology still mattered Mao made
sure wong hong hwon made it to the new
central committee the embarrassing parts
of the Constitution were snipped out and
everything that needed to be undone was
undone the military which had occupied a
high degree of seats in the Central
Committee saw all their gains from the
ninth Party Congress lost all those old
guard members who had been hit by the
Cultural Revolution tidal wave were
rehabilitated the new Standing Committee
line up for the tenth Party Congress
were mall Joe yet jinyang wong hong hwon
kung hyung joong twin shell Judah
don't be wolf and leader shun a nice mix
of leaders whose loyalty mal counted
this was a mix of radicals and old guard
in fact there evolved three groups at
this time radicals beneficiaries and
survivors of the Cultural Revolution the
whole dynamic now in Beijing pitched the
radicals or at least what was left of
them against the survivors the
beneficiaries were caught in the middle
hoping you know whoever wound up on top
you know that they would have a place
the battle concerned one thing only who
would succeed
Mozza don't but if anyone thought ma was
giving up on leftism or the Cultural
Revolution it came as a shock when it
was learned Mao had ranked wong hong
hwon first in the ranking after himself
and joanne lie this was quite an
extraordinary rise for uh you know for a
nobody like Wang Hong won so Jung Chang
John Tran Chow and many of the radicals
still around at the closing of the 10th
Party Congress they began to plot their
way to supremacy
the only thing stopping them was Joanne
Lai who by this time in mid 1973 was a
severely in true cultural revolution
tradition January 1974 we saw the pili
and peak home campaign the movement to
criticize Lin Bo and Confucius huh what
did those two have in common well it was
later found that Lin had been in
possession of Confucian astaire and in
fact and admired the sage what this
whole thing was initially that is was a
feeble attempt by Gen Ching to take a
stab at Joanne lie and other so-called
modern-day Confucian as' not that Joe
was Confucius or anything but in a in a
kind of a subtle way the premier could
be compared to the sage but more
directly as a manifestation of the
bourgeoisie but Jung ching she was a
mayor child compared to someone as
skilled and brilliant as joe and lie so
he was able to twist this pili and peak
home movement and turn it into a
campaign to criticize Lin Yao and by
extension all the radicals who were part
of his coterie this of course included
Chen Botha who had made the mistake of
moving all his chips from chairman mao
to Lin pl I guess everything bad that
you could dig up about the Cultural
Revolution and you sure didn't have to
dig deep it was hung up at this five
week long campaign and everything was
pinned on lianbao and his closest
followers 1974 saw endless bickering
between the radicals and the survivors
as his cancer progressed Joanne ly
became more and more in firm but his
infirmity and physical weakness was
coming at a terrible time Mao was not
well either
in fact Mao had not been too healthy for
a while now in the words he can go at
any time
could easily have been applied to the
Chairman so the urgency to mop up the
excesses of the Cultural Revolution
became more urgent than ever before but
Joe was dying and Mao saw there was no
one else who could fill these shoes his
new protege one hong hwon forget it he
didn't have anything except impeccable
red credentials there was no one no one
except on shopping now 71 years old at
February 1st 1975 premier Joe called the
leaders from the State Council to his
bedside and told them this was it for
him he couldn't go on any longer and
that from now on dum Xiao ping was in
charge and spoke for him I was fine with
this because this is what he had planned
for any way to bring China back from
this Cataclysm that was the Cultural
Revolution Mao couldn't depend on his
beloved radicals
although the radicals fought for power
Mao knew once they had it they wouldn't
know what to do with it except abuse it
I imagine Mao was dying but he still had
enough sense to see the Gathering Storm
he saw what young Cheng was up to Mao
had hoped wong hong hwon would be able
to be the one to join together with Deng
Xiaoping and it would not allow himself
to be coerced by John Chiang into
becoming her boy but she was too strong
and ma was no doubt disappointed to see
wong hong hwon turn into one of jung
king's pawns and her quest for power and
so he did what he had to do he made them
shout paying more powerful not only was
he a senior vice premier in the state
council mao also made him a CCP vice
chairman as well as a vice chairman of
the Military Affairs Commission as well
as PLA chief of staff that's a lot of
titles and unfortunately for John King's
team it was a ton of authority Maus
stepped back and let this all happen the
radicals were not in a good position now
Wong home when who thought he was being
groomed to be next in line knew with
tongue back and being granted all these
titles and powers he was not gonna gain
the top spot he now coveted to John
Ching it was a disaster she hated dung
and the feelings were mutual the urgency
to come out on top between her radicals
and dungs allies became greater than
ever
whoever lost this power struggle would
be destroyed by mid-1975 who was clear
to all that all that the cultural
revolution had put in place all the
damage done all the new rules and ways
of doing things were slowly and
methodically being undone dung had no
time to talk about radical ideas and
leftist ideology and revolution the only
revolution dung spoke of were the four
modernizations that Joe and I had said
were of the utmost necessity Joe was
dying but done shopping now war the
great premiers mantle and fortunately
for everyone except those supporting the
radicals he knew how to use this power
and done one after everyone who was
still clinging to the ways that were
okay between 1966 and 70 but totally not
okay now whoever opted to swim against
the new current and butt heads with dung
Xiao ping found themselves down for the
count this period in 1975 was a perfect
example in world history of the right
man being around at the right time now
as for more of what thumb shopping did
you could go listen to the dung shopping
episodes 4 & 5 and I'd like to wind
things down for now it's not like the
radicals just bowed and submitted to
dung Jung ching and her people were not
gonna just turn over and die they didn't
have much power compared to dung but
they did control one thing that was
ideology something mom would never give
up on but he clearly saw how this gang
of four that mao called them was abusing
ideology for the sake of their own power
grabs his 1975 began to wind down mouse
uh de lis had a change of heart this was
always the danger with chairman mao he
said one thing and then later on he
would just reverse his thinking he was
doing it again in October in November
maybe miles saw dung deconstructing the
whole Cultural Revolution and by
extension miles possible legacy in
Chinese history well in a sense dung was
all it took was a steady stream of
whispering into mouths air from radical
elements who still
access to you know mouths air to get the
Chairman to wake up and put his foot
down he did this by calling a Politburo
meeting in November 1975 to evaluate the
cultural revolution mouse position was
it was 70% good and 30% bad and he sent
and waited to see what the outcome of
the Politburo meeting would be and Mao
put dumb-show King to the test he put
him in charge
well done was damned if he was gonna go
along with Mao on this so he didn't side
either way after all he said for most of
the Cultural Revolution he was in the
wilderness far from Beijing far from all
the goings on how could he say whether
it was good or bad
well Tong Xiao ping fell into mouse trap
as 1975 comes to an end dung Xiao ping
is once again in retreat the radicals
now emboldened by Mao's reversal of
thinking about dung went on the attack
to Jang King's utter delight dung was
suddenly vulnerable again this was her
chance and she won dung was purged again
next time we'll try and wind up this
series on the Cultural Revolution where
we will look at the year 1976 and if you
recall from the dung shopping overview
episode number 5 this was one hell of a
year in China so join me next time and
we'll see if we can manage to squeeze
all the action into one last episode so
as the great one Robert L packet might
say I hope you enjoyed that this is your
humble host Laszlo Montgomery again on
the run I'm signing off from the West
suburbs of my old hometown of Chicago
here on a quick in-and-out mission to
meet with a customer only here for less
than 48 hours an overnighter back in
Claremont tomorrow so that's it for this
time I hope you'll all join me next week
for the exciting conclusion of the
cultural revolution podcast take care
everyone